although I'm off of my other days I'm so
excited yeah I don't know about you guys
but I am sick of this Milky Way galaxy I
am off to the under Amida galaxy
billions of stars and planets to explore
oh but I'm not an astronaut or anything
though no no I gotta around with
space travel I am an astronomer and I
know that to visit Andromeda all I have
to do is wait right here now I know you
don't believe me so let me play you a
sound now sound is a wave and waves can
either be kind of long lazy waves or
they can be really excited short waves
but it's really easy for me to change
whether a wave is lazy or excited listen
know what's happening there is that when
I moved my arm forwards I give the sound
wave like a little bit of a kick I made
to excite it and you hear that as a
higher pitch and when I dragged my arm
backwards I dragged that sound wave with
me make it a little bit lazy and you
hear that as a lower pitch but sound
isn't the only wave that this speakers
giving off it's also giving off light
waves and light is a wave just like
sound but instead of hearing different
pitches we see different colors and
that's you know really obvious when you
see a rainbow so top of the rainbow
that's the red they're long the lazy
waves whereas the bottom of the rainbows
blue they're the shore excited waves so
technically I should be able to show you
that when I move my arm forwards what I
do is I give the light wave a little bit
of a kick and make it excited and you
see this as the speaker getting bluer
and when I drag my arm backwards I drag
the light wave with me make it a little
bit lazy and you see the speaker turn
red I can't physically show you that I
can't move my arm fast enough I'd have
to move my arm at 9,000 miles per second
at that speed and we're all in Australia
so we don't see this on earth the only
place we see it is in space when we look
out where all the galaxies most of them
they look red which means they're all
moving away from each other but
Andromeda Andromeda looks blue which
means it's on its way here right now so
over time in the sky Andromeda is just
gonna get bigger and bigger and bigger
and bigger until one day it just
collides with the Milky Way galaxy I'm
so excited for that day because it means
to visit another galaxy in our universe
all I have to do is wait right here for
it to come to me and I don't even have
to wait that long I mean it's something
like 2 billion years
I mean you know seeing australia's
[Applause]
well if you didn't like somebody
starting with a few death statistics
ending with an intergalactic impact may
not gone down we're like that's fine we
don't go for it what do you thinks gonna
happen when the galaxies collide yeah
well it sounds kind of well terrifying
really when the two galaxies collide but
actually when two galaxies collide no
two stars collide so there's so much
space in between them and they just miss
each other the biggest problem is the
gravitational interaction so the two
galaxies beautiful spiral galaxies at
the minute they're just gonna start
tearing each other apart you know limb
from limb so we just don't know what's
gonna happen to the Sun you know it's
kind of on the edge of our galaxy but so
will it get thrown out or is it gonna
get drawn into the center we just don't
know where that spiral shapes gonna be
lost and we're just going to end up with
one big blob of a galaxy animations or
modeling what they only seem to dance
yeah the stars get thrown out and it's
quite pretty on a galactic scale yeah
syllabic scary set up I'm going on
holiday right it's coming here was
really really nice way to do it you
delivered the delivery you chose it was
very much I'd love to put you in front
actually a bunch of schoolchildren so
it'll be absolutely perfect the schools
do you do outreach to schools I do a
little bit in the department yeah it's
sick kids it's telescopes and show them
the moon and Jupiter and Saturn for the
first time why did you choose that style
of delivery then because it's the most
looks like me I could try and do it a
different way but this is me and I
wouldn't want to do it any other way
because I am cheeky and everything like
that
[Laughter]
marking what would you like to do with
your science communication where do you
see yourself in five years time I just
in five years time I'd love to have
reached the most amount of people
possible you know just to spread the
word about these amazing things that
people just have no idea about you know
the technique I talked about can also be
used to you know discover planets and
and and figure out rotations or stars
and things like that and it's something
so every day you know you hear that when
a police car shoots past so just to
reach as many people as possible where
there's many cool ideas from all aspects
of science and however that isn't that
way of a medium that's through then I'm
fine with that
it'd just be a dream country okay we
know where she'll be in five years we
know where she'll be in two billion big
wave of a pause please for Becky
Smithers
[Applause]